until we started filming we had no idea
that the fastest animals on land had so
many problems their sleek and
streamlined so they're not as powerful
as other animals that means scavengers
make a beeline for them when they've got
a kill jackals are irritating but hyenas
are far worse there's nothing a cheetah
can do they don't risk getting bitten by
jaws as powerful as these cheetahs have
another problem there's only a couple of
thousand left in the whole of East
Africa and there's more land is lost to
agriculture their population just keeps
dropping the last thing we wanted to do
was to make life more difficult for them
so for instance we didn't want to ruin
their hunts by disturbing the antelope
but I have to try and get the most
exciting shots I can and that means
filming the animals running straight at
the camera it's tricky because I've got
to leave the stalking cheetah and goes
so far away that all I can see is the
antelope when the cheetah suddenly
hurtles into view
I've got a split second to find it in my
lens and start filming
filming normal speed showed how fast the
tutors were running but not much else
how could film reveal more about this
wonderful animal Owen decided to go big
to shoot huge pose ups and slow motion
combination was fresh and exciting
portrayed in motion the footage also
revealed the superb running skills of
both animals the gazelles sharp pointed
hooves helped it change direction in a
heartbeat
the shooter can only keep up by using
its tail like a rudder it's also helped
by having paws that don't retract the
only cat to wear permanently spikes
running shoes Owen didn't have many
chances to film such a spectacular hunt
gazelles outmaneuver cheetahs more often
than not so when the Cheetahs were on
top form he had to make the most of it